[SWOOSH]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
The History Channel's
been grinning over their hit
project called "Project Blue
Book."
This is a series of episodes
depicting ET or UFO contact
which was then investigated
by the military.
These cases were often
denied by the government,
though the experiencers
were clear on what they saw.
The star of the show is
an astronomy professor
from Ohio State
University, Allen Hynek,
who has long since passed away.
But his son Paul
is with us today
to tell us the truth
about his father's life
and what he experienced.
And welcome.
I'm so glad to see
you here in the flesh.
>>PAUL HYNEK: Thank you, Regina.
Happy to be here.
>>REGINA: And you know, this is
to me such a wonderful project
that History Channel took
on, because it shows the dark
and the light of it all.
It didn't show it in its
full truth, obviously.
There are some artistic license.
But it took real
cases, and it actually
depicted the bones of
the real cases, you know?
Even though your mom was made
to look a little different
and your dad, and
so forth, and we'll
get into some of
the other intrigues
that may not have been real.
But we're in the shadow of
the government at the time.
What to me is so
fascinating about it
is that this is what
I call basically,
everyone's waiting
for disclosure.
This is disclosure.
>>HYNEK: Right.
>>REGINA: This is.
You say with a little d.
>>HYNEK: That's right.
>>REGINA: And it's
happening all around us.
It's been happening for years.
Stop waiting for them to land
on the White House lawn, right?
So let's get into
who your dad was
and how your dad got hooked into
this project with the military.
>>HYNEK: Yeah.
So how my dad got into
his side hustle of UFOs--
because he was an
astronomy professor.
And in World War II, he
worked on the proximity fuse,
which helped stop the
V-1 bombs over London.
Then he worked on
Project Moonwatch,
which was the first massive,
international citizen science
approach with 12
observatories around the world
and more stations to
track the movements
of the first
artificial satellites.
So they were the
ones on the ground,
tracking Sputnik in the very
early days, in the late '50s.
And then he was asked by
the United States Air Force
to help them investigate
what they then
called flying saucers.
And I think my father
thought it must
be just a couple weekends of
work, easy to dispatch and put
away.
I think he'd had
no idea at the time
that his pesky, fourth-born
child would be here
some 50 years later,
talking to you about this.
But he was a patriot.
And back in those days,
when the Air Force asked
you to help with something, he
was all too happy to oblige.
And it turned into a 20-year
affiliation with the Air Force,
and then sort of a passion
play of his afterwards.
>>REGINA: It's interesting,
because most people look at it
and say, but, OK.
He was an astronomer, right?
And so why did they choose him?
Why was he uniquely positioned?
Because he was watching the
artificial satellites in space,
so he could kind of
detect artificial
from natural phenomena.
Was that part of it?
>>HYNEK: It could be.
And you know, he had top
secret clearance from his work
on the proximity fuse.
And just as
important, I think he
was the nearest warm
bodied astronomer
to Wright-Patterson Air
Force base in Dayton, Ohio,
while he was in Columbus, Ohio.
So I'm not sure how
picky they were.
They needed a PhD to give
some academic credibility
to the exercise.
And so I think he fit
the bill quite nicely.
>>REGINA: But yet in the end,
when you start looking at how
he was utilized,
at least the way--
certainly the way
it's been depicted,
because people are going to
go watch this if they haven't
already on the History Channel.
So it's really good to
get you laying it out,
have you lay it out
for us to begin with.
So he's brought in after
an event, after a witness.
Let's talk about how
it actually functioned.
>>HYNEK: Sure.
Sure.
So yeah, in the first
season, the structure
is a real reported case.
And then my father and
his Air Force counterpart
go and investigate, and then
have machinations and drama
with the higher ups.
Because one thing that the
show accurately depicts
is that Project Blue
Book really wasn't set up
to investigate and get
to the bottom of things
and reverse engineer
propulsion systems for UFOs,
but was to manufacture answers.
And those answers should be
nothing to see here, folks.
Please disperse.
We have this under control.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
And you see this argument
going back and forth
between the higher
ups and your dad
and his counterpart
in the military.
Now the counterpart
in the military,
what is the man's name again?
>>HYNEK: So the actor is Michael
Malarkey, who actually grew up
10 minutes from Wright-Patterson
Air Force base in real life.
>>REGINA: Oh, he did?
>>HYNEK: And he
plays Captain Quinn,
which is kind of an amalgamation
of the five different Air Force
directors of Project Blue Book
that worked with my father.
>>REGINA: OK.
Now he is set up as a skeptic.
>>HYNEK: Yeah.
And as sort of a company man
who's loyal to the Air Force.
And in real life,
that was the case.
They were Air Force
people who had
NDAs and all this sort
of duty to country,
worrying about
national security,
whereas my father was
interested in science.
So even if you had a great
individual like some of them
were, they were looking
for different things
from the very beginning.
>>REGINA: Well, and
he was also being
paid to find different things.
I mean, that was his loyalty.
That was his pay grade.
That's what he was there to do.
So Project Blue
Book was ostensibly,
as you say, to really, truly
investigate the phenomena as it
was coming into the
military's awareness
through various sources.
So as we start down this road,
your father, first of all,
is he open to the notion
of extraterrestrial life?
Or is he closed when they first
tapped them on the shoulder
for this?
>>HYNEK: He was quite closed.
He thought it was a bunch
of post-war bunkum, just
sort of national hysteria.
And so again, he
thought it would be
very quick work to dispel this.
And over the years, people
say he became a believer.
I don't think that's a
great word for a scientist.
I think scientists accept data.
So over time, he came to
accept the accumulated
weight of the data.
Not just this case or that
case, but a sort of commonality
of cases from around the world,
over the years, that made him
feel, there really is a
bona fide phenomena here.
And one of the insights he had
was he wasn't studying UFOs.
He was studying UFO reports.
Because they didn't have a UFO
in a Petri dish to dissect.
He had the witness accounts.
So he focused on
that, and that's
how he came up with
the classification
system of close encounters of
the first, second, and third
kind so there'd be a kind
of common, scientific rubric
or classification system so
scientists around the world
could compare apples to apples.
>>REGINA: Right.
And he did a lovely job.
I mean, he did his job, right?
So now, let's see what
happens when he first
encounters something that he
thinks isn't a bunch of bunk.
>>HYNEK: You know, and this
gets to the people objecting
about mainstream science,
rejecting alternative notions,
whether it's ancient archaeology
or UFOs or psychedelics,
or what have you.
I don't think it's really
that mainstream science has
an active wall that they
put up to reject things.
It's really encompassed
or comprised
of a lot of individuals
who are very busy,
who are seeking grant money--
>>REGINA: This is key.
>>HYNEK: --and they want to be
consistent with their grant.
And they don't really
have time to look
at alternative theories.
There's no incentive for them.
>>REGINA: Well, and maybe
they don't want to lose
credibility--
>>HYNEK: That's right.
Especially with UFOs,
there's the stigma involved,
so we have that as well.
So it's not really
a coordinated effort
on the part of mainstream
science to reject something.
It's just that there's no
incentive for the people,
and there is disincentive
for a lot of them
to get involved in some of these
more sort of fringy fields.
>>REGINA: So now your
dad's in this fringy field.
And by virtue of that,
your mom too, so to speak.
So let's talk about where
things began shifting for him
where he started,
through the data,
understanding these
people aren't all
making this stuff up.
>>HYNEK: That's right.
And some of the most
compelling witnesses
were Air Force pilots
who are calm under fire,
literally, who go through
really traumatizing situations
with a very calmness
and a checklist,
whose eyesight is very
good, who have no incentive
to report a flying saucer or
an unidentified flying object.
And there can be multiple
witnesses at the same time
and radar corroboration
or gun camera
footage like in the recent
disclosures in "The New York
Times."
So they were very compelling.
And at the same time that this
sort of case history built up,
you know, in reality,
Project Blue Book
investigated over 12,000 cases.
And even with this
very strong mandate
to put them all under
the rug, they still
couldn't explain
over 5% or 700 cases.
So my father noticed
that there was
this growing body
of compelling cases
with highly credible witnesses.
And at the same time, he saw
the increasingly dismissive
attitude from the Air Force.
And those things just
did not go together.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And you know, there's--
OK.
So if we get into some of
the highly credible evidence
that we've seen, I've
been curious about this.
And it had to do with
some archival footage that
was in one of the episodes where
the military was apparently
doing an experimental shot
to the moon with a warhead.
That was actually brought
about in disclosure
in Steven Greer's
"Disclosure," and they
showed the original footage.
It looked the same
as the footage that
was shown in Project Blue Book.
Did they in cases use some
archival footage like that?
>>HYNEK: In sort of the credits.
But in the show, they
actually recreated it.
And the production value
in the show is so good--
>>REGINA: Oh, my God.
It's an amazingly
well done show.
>>HYNEK: It's Robert
Zemeckis' cinematographers,
so it's got a really
filmic feel to it.
>>REGINA: Oh, it's
wonderfully done.
I mean, I can't recommend
it highly enough.
In fact, I'm going to show my
little 12-year-old stepson.
>>HYNEK: Oh, you're going to
take them down the rabbit hole.
>>REGINA: Because he finally
has started reading and going
to some sites,
saying, you know, I
think there are other
species out there,
and I'm willing to
accept the notion.
And so I thought, good.
Can't wait to show
him Project Blue Book.
[LAUGH]
>>HYNEK: It's nice to have that
sort of openness of spirit.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Well, he's been super closed,
so now he's just opening up
to a lot of things all
at once, because he's
been very clear on
his point of view
on everything politically and
all the way through history.
>>HYNEK: Well, he has a stepmom
as a wonderful resource.
[LAUGH]
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Who listens to their
stepmom anyway, right?
[LAUGHTER]
OK.
So now, you were talking
about these pilots
that had had these experiences.
Now the way it was
set up in the series,
Captain Quinn had also
had an experience.
And he was living in deep
conflict with himself.
>>HYNEK: Yes.
And that kind of bubbles
up, and he sees--
you know, his job
as we talked about,
he's the loyal company man.
And this is a very
strict kind of company.
But then you have this
scientist who's very credible,
who is not out there in
whack-a-doodle ville.
He wants to find
the answers as well.
But when they have these
shared experiences of things
that seem to be perhaps a
threat to national security
and can't be answered by
this really smart scientist,
that starts to bring him on
his own character arc as well.
>>REGINA: Right.
So one of the things
is to have your dad
like Indiana Jones-style.
They're out.
Right after an incident,
boom, they're in their car
and they're on their
way to an event.
How often did your dad
get out in the field
and actually talk to witnesses?
How often-- and we
see part of that
versus data that had been
gathered and given to him.
>>HYNEK: Very often.
He went around the world,
investigating cases.
And my good friend Calvin Parker
of the famous 1973 Pascagoula,
Mississippi sighting
told me recently
that he and Charlie Hickson
finished up their report
with the police department about
11:30 PM that Sunday night.
They both went back to work,
which is amazing enough,
at the shipyards in Pascagoula.
And my father was
there the next morning
at 7:00 AM in the HR office.
>>REGINA: That's amazing.
So he really was on it.
>>HYNEK: So Calvin
to this day does not
know how my father
got there that fast,
because we lived in Chicago.
So I think he must have
already been on the Gulf Coast
for some kind of
business and got the call
and went over there.
But that's very interesting
how fast he got there.
>>REGINA: So this
part is true, then.
We're just laying all this
out so as people watch,
they know what's
true and what's not.
Now in the show, your mother
is this very glamorous
and very gutsy and very
self-assured, self-sufficient
woman.
>>HYNEK: That's right.
>>REGINA: And your mom was.
>>HYNEK: She was
very much that way.
You know, the show and the
actors, Aidan Gillen, my TV
dad, and Laura
Mennell, my TV mom,
they are fantastic actors
and wonderful people.
And I talk with
them quite a lot.
And what they
wanted to do, which
I think is appropriate
for a show like this,
is not have everything
be accurate,
but to be authentic to the
kernels of the characters
so that they can
sort of transport
this understanding of the
main aspects of the characters
and then play them
realistically in these sort
of dramatized situations.
And they did a really
good job with that.
And just for the
record, Regina, I
want to say that having the
super villain from "Game
of Thrones" play your TV father
is not super creepy at all.
[LAUGH]
That's so funny.
You know, it seemed to me like
he did a really incredible job,
though, didn't he?
>>HYNEK: He did.
And you know, I went to
the set several times,
and I've spent a lot
of time with Aidan.
He has this knack
for observing people.
And there was one
scene that was in one
of the first episodes of the
first season where he's driving
and he's chasing what we call
unknown or an unseen man.
And between takes, he would
come over and talk to me
on the side of the set.
And one time when
he was walking away
from me with that hat
and a trench coat,
I felt my father there.
>>REGINA: Isn't
that interesting?
And Paola, who first turned me
on to your dad, because Paola
worked directly for your dad--
>>HYNEK: That's right.
That's right.
>>REGINA: --said the one
thing that was missing
was we didn't have
his pipe on him.
>>HYNEK: That's right.
That's right.
>>REGINA: Your dad
always had a pipe, right?
>>HYNEK: Yeah.
Bless Paola Harris's heart.
And she's told me this.
And I asked the showrunner
who's a friend of mine,
and he said that the
issue with that is It
can produce continuity issues.
And also, his feeling is
that a pipe sort of connotes
stagnation, that
you're sitting around.
And they wanted this
more sort of frenetic,
out of control feel.
>>REGINA: Right.
And they got it.
>>HYNEK: Yeah.
They did.
>>REGINA: Back to real life,
your dad's involved in this,
and now he's starting to
see that he's actually
maybe a shill for the
military on certain levels.
And he's not feeling respected.
He's feeling there's
some dishonesty going on.
What happened in
your dad's life when
he realized they were using
him to quash these stories?
>>HYNEK: That's a
really good question.
So I think my father felt he
had three groups of stakeholders
that he had to be mindful of.
One was the government
and the military,
another one is
mainstream science,
and then there are-- called
them believers of UFOs.
These are very different groups.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>HYNEK: And I
think he felt he had
to be sort of in the Venn
diagram in the middle,
keeping each of them at
least mildly unhappy.
And then he was doing
the right balancing act.
You know, he thought a
lot about, hey, look.
This is not-- clearly, after
1953 with the Robertson panel,
it was clear that this
was more of a PR exercise
than a bona fide
scientific pursuit.
So he thought quite
a lot, and he talked
with a lot of his friends.
Should he stay involved?
And over time, he felt,
yes, because if I am here,
I can help influence--
not control--
but I can influence which
cases are investigated
and how they're investigated
and how the data is recorded.
And then the world will have
access to that data afterwards.
But if I leave now in a huff and
say with righteous indignation
that this is below my
scientific standards,
there will be no science
done there at all.
So he felt he had a duty
to stay there and make
it as scientific and
open as possible,
and then to use that data later
in a very "Open Minds" manner.
>>REGINA: And your mother,
because she was his confidante,
and she had her own mind.
>>HYNEK: That's right.
>>REGINA: She was
not a weak woman.
How did she factor into this as
his partner and as your mother?
And then after that, explain
how this filtered down
to the family.
And were you raised on the
subject of UFOs, and so forth?
So how it filtered
into your lives.
>>HYNEK: So this show
in the first season,
TV mom is more sort of the
archetypal '50s housewife.
And that was a
deliberate decision
on the part of the producers.
And we had told them, look.
Our mom was a very strong woman
and became an important figure
and ufology in her own right.
But they wanted to show that
sort of arc of her character
along with my father.
In real life, she was
a very strong woman.
My father traveled all
the time, so my mom
did a lot of the raising
of us by herself.
And that included all
the physical activity
in and around the house.
She would dig holes in the
backyard, fix the plumbing,
decide where we went to
school, all these things.
And so we were raised with
an intellectually stimulating
and versatile
jack-of-all-trades mother.
And that was a very
interesting combination.
And I think all
five of us children
feel very fortunate to have
had the upbringing that we did.
And how that bubbled down to
us and growing up with UFOs,
some of my earliest memories
are flying saucer ornaments
on the Christmas
tree or Father Gill
from Papua New
Guinea coming over
for dinner, or Travis
Walton, talking
to Calvin Parker on the phone.
I can't remember a time when
UFOs weren't part of my life.
And by extension, science,
astronomy in general,
sort of having this open
attitude toward science.
And I think if I can kind
of crystallize the feeling
both of my parents
had, there was
a sign I saw at a march for
science that's sometimes
attributed to Richard Feynman,
which I think sums up the two
types of people in the world.
I'd rather have
questions I can't answer
than answers I can't question.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>HYNEK: And so with UFOs,
this is a riddle and an enigma
and a conundrum with
eight more layers.
We feel like we're
getting closer,
but we never really know.
And I think for something
like this, you have to be--
and this gets back to what we
talked about with scientists--
you need to be open
when confronted
by what seems to be a new
phenomena that can be annoying,
against your beliefs, et cetera.
But just as important,
once you come to feel, hey,
there is a phenomena
here, you need
to keep your mind open so
that you don't flail around
for the best available answer
at the time and shove that in.
>>REGINA: Right.
It's very tempting.
We want instant gratification.
They wanted answers.
>>HYNEK: Right.
And even if you
have an open mind,
we are pattern matching
mammals, and we want answers.
It's uncomfortable,
the more big questions
that you have that
you leave unanswered.
So it's a natural tendency
to try to fill in an answer,
but it's important for
something like this
to not do that right away.
And the answer may
involve extraterrestrials.
That may be part of it.
But there are some indications
that my father and Jacques
Vallée and Paola and others have
believed for a long time that
the extraterrestrial hypothesis
doesn't seem to explain
the totality of the phenomena.
>>REGINA: You're talking
interdimensional and many
other phenomena.
>>HYNEK: Quite possibly, yes.
>>REGINA: Which is-- and we're
talking about time and space
collapsing.
We're talking about
parallel realities.
extradimensional--
>>HYNEK: Exactly.
>>REGINA: I mean, all
these other factors
are playing in because
our five senses in a sense
are so limited.
We can't discern
necessarily what
we've just been exposed to.
And it does.
It makes it so
much more complex.
>>HYNEK: That's right.
And you know, my father
called his first book
on the subject "The
UFO Experience."
Not "The UFO Sighting."
Because the sighting in
UFO reports is often not
even the most traumatic
or most important
part of what the
witness reports.
They may talk about
communication before, during,
and after the sighting.
And it's this sort of totality
of the overall experience that
really marks them.
And the sighting is
not a small part,
but it's just not
the chief part.
And there are also issues with
the extraterrestrial hypothesis
that aren't trivial
problems with that
that really lend you to believe
that there is more than that.
And Jacques Vallée has a quote
along the lines of, when we get
to the bottom of this, if
it's only extraterrestrial,
I'm going to be disappointed.
>>REGINA: Right.
Right.
And it probably isn't.
There are far too many
other interesting phenomena
that are being
explored to limit it
to something such as an artifact
from a third dimensional
vehicle and being.
[LAUGH]
>>HYNEK: Yeah.
And the sort of Cheshire cat way
that they appear and disappear
and seem to have a purpose.
And all this
communication really
seems to transcend nuts
and bolts visitations
from other planets.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
Especially when you're talking,
again, the mind interface
and so forth.
And this is something
I'm curious about.
When your father
was out interviewing
all of these people
over these years,
was there some kind of
common theme that popped up,
whether the people were
more filled with just terror
or wonder, whether they
felt altered in a good way,
in dread for the
rest of their lives?
What kind of theme popped up?
>>HYNEK: I think
it's all of those.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>HYNEK: There's
a whole spectrum
of people who had different
beliefs before going into it.
Typically, policemen
and Air Force personnel
would be more reluctant to
believe in the phenomena,
both by personal disposition
and professional training.
And then afterwards, I saw
and I talked to many witnesses
myself, very different reactions
where people sort of fit it
into the fabric of their lives.
They felt that they
had been selected
for some kind of purpose
that maybe they didn't grasp.
And other ones who were
just flat out terrified.
And would talk about
it with my father
because he was very
sympathetic, and he
talked with thousands
of people about what
may have been the most traumatic
experience in their whole life.
But they didn't really
want to dwell on it.
But if they came to the
Hynek house for dinner,
that's kind of the quid pro quo.
So yeah, a whole spectrum
of how people reacted to it
and whether they thought
it was good or bad or both.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Let's take a little
peek at a clip, OK?
This one is from "The
Fuller Dogfight."
That's episode one, right?
Let's take a peek,
and then we'll
talk about it afterward, OK?
>>HYNEK: Cool.
[MACHINERY NOISES]
>> This is
[INAUDIBLE],, San Diego.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Control, this is Flight 915.
Is there any other
aircraft in the vicinity?
>> Cargo tower.
Negative, Coop.
Nothing but open sky
between you and Bismarck.
[MACHINERY NOISES]
>>REGINA: OK so this is
called "The Fuller Dogfight."
And it has a lot of
implications, but one of them
is he was hearing
something from a radio
station in his hometown.
Not in his local vicinity.
So tell us the truth
about what was going on
with "The Fuller Dogfight."
>>HYNEK: Right.
That's patterned after the
Gorman dogfight in real life.
And it's a very
interesting case where
the pilot felt that there
was communications that
really couldn't be happening.
And so the showrunner
asked my brother and I, who
were both consultants
on the show,
hey, what are the
physics involved
in hearing a radio station
from San Diego when
you're in South Dakota?
Now that's a bit above my
pay grade as a French major,
but my brother Joel said,
well, that could actually
happen if the troposphere
is low enough,
and yada, yada, yada, yada.
And that wasn't the answer
they were looking for.
They wanted that
to be impossible.
It turns out it's
not impossible,
but highly improbable, which is
often how things go in science.
So we let them know that
it's most likely not
going to happen, but
that sort of sets up
this theme throughout the first
season of this communication
that goes beyond a sighting
and a feeling of control,
and indeed, of
innate intelligence.
>>REGINA: It's interesting,
because I know people
who've heard things that exist.
OK, this is one example.
A friend of mine who was
incapacitated for a time.
She'd been in the hospital, and
she was hearing things, right?
She wasn't on drugs,
because she was
too sensitive to take drugs.
But she was definitely
kind of in another world.
And she kept listening, just
listening to what was there.
Well, it turned out
after this bit was over,
a song came out on the radio.
She said, that's what I've
been listening-- it was new.
Brand new.
And it was in production
apparently at the time.
And she'd been listening to
it before it was ever debuted.
>>HYNEK: While it
was in production?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
She was hearing it into another
domain, in another place,
in another location while
it was being created.
But it had not been
released yet on the radio.
It was brand new.
And she said, oh my God.
That's the song I have been
listening to in my head,
you know?
And I thought about it, and our
mind works in mysterious ways.
We know that-- your dad knew--
there's this unified
field of consciousness.
Why couldn't you hear
into another place
if something created
a resonance for you?
>>HYNEK: That's right.
Some kind of bridge.
>>REGINA: A bridge.
Yeah.
So in that case, he may
have been hearing something.
>>HYNEK: That's right.
>>REGINA: They just went
ahead and assigned it
in a warm and fuzzy way
to what they wished.
But nonetheless, the dogfight
itself was really the point.
>>HYNEK: That's right.
>>REGINA: And what
it did to that man.
>>HYNEK: Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
And then later in
the season, you
see Captain Quinn in his
own kind of dogfight.
And he comes away really
changed by feeling
the intelligence that
came from these orbs that
are all around him.
>>REGINA: And in the way
this one was portrayed,
it just seemed to
stop and protect
his craft at the same time.
There was a
protection around him.
And it's like, I don't know
how I got through this.
And this is what's happened
a lot with these reports.
They could overtake
us at any time.
There's nothing we could do.
We felt like it was
suspended animation.
And somehow, we
couldn't do anything.
We were paralyzed.
And it all ended up OK.
>>HYNEK: Yeah.
What's sort of
common in reports is
this feeling of overwhelming
superiority and power
often accompanied by a fairly
neutral feeling, that they
don't often feel--
because well,
frankly, if you feel
this overwhelming superiority
and a hostile atmosphere,
you're not going to be around.
Right?
But they feel it's either
sort of neutral or benevolent.
And it is this intelligence--
they sort of grok,
they sort of feel
all around them.
And so often, they won't
engage with the guns
anymore, because they know
it's just completely futile.
>>REGINA: Right.
And so what did some of them
go away with from your father's
rendering in terms of a sense
of what that was all about?
Did they feel they were
just being given a warning?
What did some of these
pilots feel afterward?
Because this is part of what
has been really subsequently
in "The New York Times."
Starting 2017, I believe, "New
York Times" started releasing
these old, archival stories--
yeah, bigger D disclosure.
Exactly.
So what do these pilots--
I know you can't
speak for all of them.
But what did your
father feel they were
grokking from the experience?
What was the point?
>>HYNEK: There's a
spectrum with that too.
Some witnesses feel that there
was some kind of message,
and some other ones
just felt helpless.
One of my good
friends is Kevin Day,
who was the radar operator
on the USS Princeton, which
is next to the Nimitz for
the famous 2004 sighting.
And I challenge anyone
to talk to Kevin
and not see the sincerity
that just comes away from him,
that comes out of him.
He's still struggling to come to
terms with the enormity of what
he saw.
And he saw it on radar.
The Nimitz saw it on radar.
Hundreds of people
saw it on binoculars.
The gun camera footage
at the same time.
The Navy has verified this
and opted to disclose it
to "The New York Times."
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HYNEK: So you have
all these-- which
is a completely different
stance than the Air
Force in the days
of Project Blue Book
where my father was
who was always saying,
we have this under control.
Please disperse.
Nothing to see.
The Navy is saying,
you know what?
We see hundreds of these things.
We don't know what they are.
We could use a
little bit of help.
Kevin, his primary
thing, because he
is such a wonderful,
caring man, a 20-year Navy
veteran, the first
thing he thinks about
is the danger it
poses to Navy aviators
who are up there
flying around and who
have no idea what's going to
happen with these things who
are demonstrating
motions that we
can't do with Earth technology.
>>REGINA: Well,
that makes sense,
because he has to
remain in control,
and he's out of control.
>>HYNEK: And so he's more
concerned with the safety
of Navy aviators,
and now he's started
thinking of what they might be.
And also, he wants to put
together an expedition
to go to the same spot
in the ocean with a team
full of scientists and
very sensitive instruments
to see if we can
detect more of these.
>>REGINA: Oh, interesting.
OK.
So thank you for that.
Now let's look at another clip.
This one is called "The
Flatwoods Monster."
And this was interesting,
because as it
was depicted in
the film, the kids
went away with radiation burns.
And you know, the question is,
if they're making this up--
and the mother, how did
this happen to my children?
So let's take a little
peek at it first, OK?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[DOG BARKING]
>> Lord.
>> Jonas!
[SCREAM]
>> Kids!
>> Noah!
[DOG BARKING]
>>Lori! ?
>> Here, girl! ?]
>>REGINA: So what was the
true story behind this?
>>HYNEK: So there is a
sighting of something monstrous
in the woods, and my father
wasn't sure what it was.
Some people think it was
great large owls in the woods.
But there are the
reports of sort
of radiation burns,
which are not
really consistent with owls.
At least not any owls I know.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HYNEK: So it's just
one of these cases
where you have these various
strands that stand out
and say, look.
We can't just dismiss it
easily, but then there's
not that much evidence
to go on after that.
You know, you have
the burns, and this
is one of the cases that
helped inspire the movie "Close
Encounters," that you have
these sort of radiation
burns with Richard Dreyfus.
So it's one of those
cases that you just
can't sweep under the carpet.
>>REGINA: And for
the people involved,
to have the government have
someone like your father
stand up and say,
no, it's just owls,
how did he feel about that?
Because these
families are saying,
you've totally let us down.
>>HYNEK: Yeah.
So that was the sort
of balancing act
that he had to draw between
taking orders of a kind
and remaining open.
And you know, the
biggest example of this
was in 1966 in
Hillsdale, Michigan,
with swamp gas, where--
and I've actually
found video footage of that
press conference where he says,
parts of it could be
explained by swamp gas.
But nuances aren't often
kept and maintained
by the press in these sort of
highly charged atmospheres,
and so they said,
Hynek says it's
all swamp gas, with an overly
dismissive, big paintbrush
stroke.
But that was something he
thought was very unfortunate.
And that's what led
then Congressman Gerald
Ford to pressure the
United States Air
Force to have a committee to
investigate how Project Blue
Book was investigating cases.
And that led to the Condon
committee right here in Boulder
to then say, there's
nothing with UFOs.
But if anybody looks online
and finds the Condon committee
report, the report itself
makes an overwhelming case
for the existence of
UFOs, but the conclusion
doesn't jive with the
data in its own report.
>>REGINA: Very controversial.
OK.
Let's now go to your mom.
Now she's been through all
of this, and as you say,
your mom became a player
in the UFO scene herself,
so let's talk
about her role now.
Because at the
end of season two,
you can see she was
starting to get involved.
Your mom is now starting
to get her nose--
she's poking her nose
around in these affairs,
and it's pissing
off everybody, OK?
So let's talk about what
your mom really did.
>>HYNEK: I think my father
got people interested in UFOs.
Here is a highly credible,
nuts-and-bolts astrophysicist,
rocket scientist who helped
with the war efforts who says,
yeah, there's something here.
I think people had an
innate understanding
that he wouldn't say
that unless there really
was something solid.
But it was my mom who was really
salt of the earth, from Ohio.
And when people
heard her talk, I
think they would be more
inclined to say, well,
if Mimi Hynek believes
this, I think I will too,
because she could relate
to people like that.
And my father started,
after the dissolution
of Project Blue Book, the
Center for UFO Studies.
And I think my mom was
instrumental with that,
because my father had the
vision for what it wanted to do,
but my mom was more sort
of the administrator who
actually made things happen.
And without her, I don't think
it ever would have taken off.
>>REGINA: And so she
continued that for how long?
>>HYNEK: Oh, for years.
She was the editor of the
"International UFO Reporter."
She helped organize
UFO conferences.
And she drove right in, not just
as that sort of earlier '50s
housewife, but because she was
genuinely interested herself.
>>REGINA: And this is
Columbus, Ohio, right?
>>HYNEK: That's right.
>>REGINA: So she didn't
have a lot of natural allies
in the neighborhood.
>>HYNEK: Yeah.
And then in Evanston,
Illinois, where I think you'd
have to go quite a few blocks
to find people who at that time
were waving UFO flags
in their front yard.
>>REGINA: So I mean, we always
hear about Wright-Patterson Air
Force base.
We hear about a
lot of creepy stuff
about Wright-Patterson
Air Force base.
And as you say, your dad had
warm blood, he had a PhD,
and he was right near it.
What's up with Wright-Patterson?
>>HYNEK: I don't know.
Lieutenant Colonel
Robert Friend was
one of the Air Force
directors of Project Blue Book
and was my father's favorite.
This guy worked on
Project Blue Book,
he worked on the space shuttle,
and he flew 150 combat missions
as a Tuskegee airman.
He's a true American hero.
And I met him through the
production of Project Blue Book
and spent his 99th
birthday party with him.
>>REGINA: (WHISPER) Wow.
>>HYNEK: And this man was
asked for a promotional spot
for the show, were alien bodies
ever taken to Wright-Patt?
And he said, no.
Alien bodies wouldn't
go to Wright-Patt.
That was a mechanic center.
They'd go to the burn
base at Fort Hood, Texas.
Now clearly, the question was--
the spirit of the question
was, did you see alien bodies?
Not just to deny
where they were taken.
But he was a skillful
Air Force man.
He answered the
question directly.
No.
Alien bodies would not
have been taken there.
So he sort of
sidestepped the question.
Now at his 99th
birthday party, I
asked him, I leaned
over and whispered
in his ear, Lieutenant
Colonel Friend,
I'm just your former
partner's son.
You can tell me.
Did you see anything
super compelling?
His eyes lit up with
this big sparkle.
Yes!
So I planned to
follow up with him,
because he also lived where I
live in Southern California.
Unfortunately, he
died soon thereafter.
>>REGINA: Oh.
Oh.
That's horrible.
You don't want a
book to end that way.
Yes!
No sequel.
>>HYNEK: And this is a
guy who even at that point
had taken oaths not
to reveal things.
But he came as close
as he comfortably could
to his friend's son to tell
me that he had seen something.
And that was more the
spirit of the question than,
no, alien bodies
weren't taken there.
>>REGINA: Well, then you go
to Lieutenant Colonel Philip
Corso and some of what he
states in his book, "Day
After Roswell."
I also have interviewed
Maurizio Biata.
And he talks about
what he had seen
by way of some
film that was taken
in the '40s from some crash.
It was very emotional
for him to talk about
as a deep-digging journalist.
Artifacts do exist,
but mostly it's
in the memory of these older--
Paola talking to the mortician
at Roswell, the nurse that
was in attendance
with him that had seen
the bodies, the
public information
officer for the
military who said,
we've had a crash at Roswell.
Uh, what are you saying?
Uh, actually it's
just weather balloons.
You know, everyone covering
up from the top down.
And it takes so much to
piece these things together,
but at least you got
a piece of that piece.
>>HYNEK: And you
know, Paola's one
of the few people that
does serious field
investigations as a journalist.
>>REGINA: She is
not given her due.
>>HYNEK: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Partly I think
because she's female
and she's agreeable.
>>HYNEK: Paola.
>>REGINA: Paola.
Paola lifts everybody up.
She knows everybody.
She introduced you to me.
>>HYNEK: That's right.
>>REGINA: Me to you.
She's introduced me
to virtually everybody
that has really close
contact with what happened.
>>HYNEK: And she digs deep.
And you know, Roswell,
some of the things that
are most compelling to me aren't
this or that piece of evidence,
but it's the behavior
of people involved.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HYNEK: So Roswell and the
Navy I find very interesting,
because Roswell, the air
base commander one day
apparently felt that
he could understand
the difference between tinfoil,
rubber, and balsa wood,
and weird shapeshifting
alien alloys,
and made the decision that
was approved at some level
to tell the press that they
had captured a flying saucer.
You have to be pretty
sober and pretty sure
about your hand to do that.
Now of course, ever since then
they've been walking it back,
but that's the fact.
Now you have the
Navy saying, we see--
they call them UAPs and USOs--
all the time.
We don't know what
to do about them.
How about a hand?
Those two things you
simply can't dismiss.
Whatever you think
about UFOs, you've
got the air army at
that time and the Navy
admitting either we've
captured a flying saucer,
or we see tons of these things.
To me, those are some of
the most compelling things
ever to happen in this field.
>>REGINA: I agree with that.
Now you brought it
up, so let's go there.
So now you're continuing on.
We'll see what happens with the
show, "Project Blue Book," who
picks it up.
And I want to see
more of these seasons.
I absolutely love what
the team is doing.
And also, it's wonderful to turn
people on to it and say, hey,
it's slightly fictionalized, OK?
They're having a
little fun with it.
However, these are real cases.
And at the end, it gives
the name of the real case,
shows the real people, shows the
real footage, which is really,
I think, a brilliant
call, what you've done.
>>HYNEK: Yeah.
You can have a family.
Maybe one person
believes in UFOs.
But it's really entertaining.
It's this rip roaring yarn.
Come for the entertainment.
Stay for the facts.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
I love it.
>>HYNEK: And it makes the
tent bigger, you know?
We can have almost
an echo chamber
of people that already believe
things, but like "Close
Encounters of the Third
Kind," "Project Blue Book,"
and other pieces of either
some fiction or all fiction
really make the tent bigger
for more people to come in
and have a responsible
discussion.
And with "Close
Encounters" in the '70s,
it made it so much more
comfortable for people to say,
you know what?
I've seen something like this.
>>REGINA: Yes.
I agree with you.
So I say, quit sitting
around, waiting
for the saucer to land
on the White House lawn.
Disclosure's happening
all around you.
It's already happening.
>>HYNEK: That's right.
>>REGINA: It's a fait accompli.
Now you just see how you want
to plug in, study it, get
comfortable with
it, or reject it.
That's each individual's choice.
So now you, you're
continuing on.
Like you said, you're the spunky
little monkey of the kids,
right?
This is your thing.
And so you're continuing
on your own research.
And one of the areas that you're
fascinated with and researching
is USOs, Unidentified
Submerged Objects.
I find this fascinating,
because some of them
have been caught on tape.
OK?
And I remember about--
hmm.
It was somewhere
between 2006 and 2010.
I can't remember the year
now, was that footage that
made the evening news
for a couple of days
off the coast of Los Angeles,
I think off Catalina--
whew!-- coming out of the water.
What was that?
And so let's talk about
your journey and what you've
discovered and where the
hotspot-- and it turns out,
that area where that
was caught on film
or on tape, that's
one of the hotspots.
Most sightings of USOs.
What's going on?
>>HYNEK: And USOs were also
part of the week-long sightings
for the Nimitz incident in 2004.
Just a little bit south on
the coast, just off San Diego.
And so Kevin Day, my friend
from the USS Princeton,
wants to organize an expedition
to go out there on the ocean
and see what we can find.
>>REGINA: So are
you thinking you
might find underground bases?
>>HYNEK: You know, I'm
hoping that we find that--
I guess it's not a smoking
gun if it's underwater.
Maybe a bubbling gun.
>>REGINA: Uh-huh.
Mm-hmm.
A squirt gun.
>>HYNEK: Yeah.
That's right.
But it's just a great
scientific exercise
to go there in general.
And you know, the underwater
submersible objects
really helps show that
these craft are masters
of all they survey, any kind
of medium, whether they're
appearing and disappearing
in the air, in the water
somewhere, in the ground, just
exhibiting so many capabilities
beyond our Earthly
technology, day in, day out.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And so tell us about--
give us a teaser about some
of the USO type of experiences
that have been
caught or reported
that really fascinated
you to decide to go down
that particular rabbit hole.
>>HYNEK: So it was
Kevin Day, really,
that brought me in on a
personal gut level to these.
Hearing him and
seeing his eyes kind
of well up, because this is
such an emotional experience
for him.
And if you think about it, this
is a very strong, confident
man.
But what he's talking
about something like this,
he has a very human reaction.
And that's something I look
for in sort of the credibility
of a witness.
And he talks about seeing these
things come out of the water.
Just imagine--
>>REGINA: And a
regular looking craft.
>>HYNEK: Yeah.
Sort of this tic-tac craft.
Imagine-- you know, we're used
to seeing things fly around.
We understand flight in the air.
But we're not used to seeing
things come out of the water.
And when a sighting
starts off that way,
imagine how shocked you'd
be from the very beginning.
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah.
>>HYNEK: And then you have all
the chirping of confirmations
from all the various
people, eyewitnesses
or through gun
camera footage that
see the thing at the same time.
I can't imagine what
that would be like.
And imagine if you'd
seen that by yourself
and you have no corroboration.
But here you have hundreds
of people at the same time
and the Navy and the
Pentagon and "The New York
Times" all de facto
confirming your experience.
>>REGINA: Indeed.
And one of the things
that has been brought up
in other interviews was talking
with Maurizio and Paola.
They were talking about
what they'd originally
been told of by a man
named Ray Santelli,
having to do with footage that
he had acquired from the 1940s.
And in it, he said the
most interesting thing
is this footage of at that time
President Truman stepping out
with a lot of black cars at
the site of a UFO retrieval
operation.
And that there were beings
there-- they might have--
I don't know if they were lying
on the ground or alive or dead,
but they were there.
And with this craft.
So talking about
government knowledge of.
And so what I'm going to do
is extend that question to,
do you feel or did your dad
feel there was government
collaboration or participation
with extraterrestrial species,
as has been said by some others?
>>HYNEK: It's a
really good question.
By definition,
there's multitudes
of evidence of
government cover-up,
just from documents
that have been released
in the Freedom of
Information Act
to write whole pages redacted.
So let's just agree that
there is a cover-up.
How far that extends and to
presidents or military upfront
encounters with
aliens, I don't know.
There's a lot of credible
people, including
this video, which I've not
seen that you're mentioning,
that sort of indicates that.
But I'm not personally
aware of these.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And I wonder, because
I think Disclosure
was one of the incidences
where I first--
I was at Disclosure.
I was in DC at the Press
Club, National Press Club.
And I met all these
people in the military,
and I talked to the
various individuals.
This is now, what?
Almost 20 years ago.
And the notion that higher-ups
in the military and that
presidents themselves had been
informed throughout history--
I mean, certainly the last six
decades or so about the events.
Seven decades now, eight
decades about these events.
And that one of the--
I have been told that one of the
prime questions that presidents
have when they enter office is,
so when do I get to have access
to this kind of information?
Is there extraterrestrial life?
I've read about this and that.
>>HYNEK: Yeah, I think both
Hillary and Bill have said that
on the late night shows.
>>REGINA: They have said that.
Apparently Carter was said
to have asked the same thing.
>>HYNEK: And he said
that he saw a UFO.
>>REGINA: And he
saw a UFO himself.
But when it came time--
I think George W. Bush Sr. was
the head of CIA at that time--
he was denied access.
They are not of a sufficient
level of clearance--
>>HYNEK: They're
temporary placeholders.
>>REGINA: They're placeholders.
They don't get the skinny.
The leaders of this world
don't get the skinny.
It's this tightly
held information
at the top of the military.
>>HYNEK: If you are MKUltra
or whatever this group is,
you're not going to give that
information to somebody who
was elected politically who will
have a quite different agenda
about disclosure, and it may
be a short-term objective, when
you've been working with
us maybe 40, 50 years.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
And so now you're talking
about the real bedfellows
at the very top strata
of military, top strata
of intelligence, and
top strata of business,
the military industrial complex.
Those industries
work hand-in-hand
with the other two.
>>HYNEK: That's right.
>>REGINA: And we as human
beings and presidents
are not on a need-to-know
basis about this.
>>HYNEK: And then we see sort
of glimpses of indications
of that with the
famous 1952 UFO flap
in Washington, DC,
which is featured
in the 10th episode of
season one of "Project Blue
Book" where Truman
in reality scrambled
fighter jets for the UFOs flying
above our nation's capital.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HYNEK: Now you know, Truman
was, as they derisively called,
a dirt farmer from Missouri.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>HYNEK: I need to see
it to believe it, right?
The Show-Me state.
You know he's not going to fly
off the handle and scramble
jets when he knows that he'd
get pilloried in the press
unless there's
something really there.
>>REGINA: Right.
So I have always
found it interesting
that even as president, no.
You're not on a
need-to-know basis.
Now just really quickly, you
had a cameo in one of the shows.
>>HYNEK: Yes.
>>REGINA: Tell us who
you were, where you
were, where we will see you.
>>HYNEK: OK.
So this is episode
six of season two.
>>REGINA: Season two.
>>HYNEK: And this is the
episode about the movie "Close
Encounters."
So they do a flash
forward from the '50s
to the '70s to the set
of "Close Encounters,"
and they age my
TV mom and TV dad.
And I'm there for the third time
on the set, and they say, OK.
We're going put you in this.
So I have a cameo role in
the show about my father
in the episode about the
movie based on my father's
work in which he had a cameo.
And my cameo is
the very last shot
of the episode
where TV mom and TV
dad are walking to
the camera, and you
see this roguishly
handsome guy sitting
in a crane as a cameraman, being
lifted up towards the ceiling.
[LAUGH]
>>REGINA: I saw it.
>>HYNEK: And I think I really
nailed it, the way I sat there.
Yeah.
I really pulled that
whole scene together.
>>REGINA: You pulled it.
It wouldn't have
worked without you.
>>HYNEK: Yeah.
Oh, thank you so much.
[LAUGH]
>>REGINA: I love it.
So OK.
So I really appreciate your
giving us this backstory,
because so many
people watching this
are going to take it
up with their families
and go on this raucous, wild,
wonderful, but also truthful
adventure.
>>HYNEK: Yeah.
And you know, everybody
involved with the production--
the actors, the
showrunner, the creator,
the former network
executive of the show--
are all huge UFO buffs.
And they want
people to understand
there's something going on.
And they want to shine
a brighter light on this
and bring people along
not only for the drama,
but they want
people to say, wow.
There really is
something to this.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HYNEK: So the show
comes from a place,
I've said, of
authenticity and trying
to wrap it in drama to
get as many people to say,
this is really timely.
The real Project
Blue Book is really
one of the first
instances of fake news,
because this is propaganda
exercise saying,
don't look over here.
There's nothing
going on over here.
>>REGINA: Right.
Absolutely.
So in the end, we're
left with one question.
This is a big question.
I want to ask this and then find
out besides your USO project--
fascinating-- what are you
going to use technologically?
Are you going to use submarines
or what to get down there
and find out if there are bases?
You're not going to tell
us just yet, but that's OK.
You guys are going to go for it.
and see if there are
underground bases.
>>HYNEK: That's right.
>>REGINA: I can't wait to
hear the outcome of that.
What other projects--
you have a couple others
you're working on
right now, and then I'm
going to ask you
the big question.
>>HYNEK: The big question.
OK.
So working on
several different TV
shows in early stages
of production now
that are documentaries,
one of which
will investigate cases that
are really solid cases,
but haven't received as
much attention as others.
And we'd go around the world.
My brother Joel and I
would go around the world
and help shine more
light on these cases.
The other shows are
an earlier stage,
and so I don't know exactly
what they'll be yet.
But one of them is with Kevin
to go and search for the bases.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Can't wait.
Your daddy would be
proud of you too.
>>HYNEK: I hope so.
>>REGINA: I think so.
So this is the big question.
>>HYNEK: I'm ready.
>>REGINA: What are
they trying to hide?
We are now-- this was in
the '40s this started.
We're in the 2020s.
>>HYNEK: It's like
the modern era.
>>REGINA: 80 years.
What are they still
trying to hide?
What are they trying
to keep for themselves?
What are they not giving
credit to humanity for?
Why can't they just give it
up when most of the world
believes we're not
alone in this universe?
>>HYNEK: Yeah.
And when they
finally do give it up
and they do the
big D Disclosure,
I think by that time
populations around the world
will have already
come to the conclusion
that there's something going on.
And it will be met not with
a shout, but with a yawn.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>HYNEK: OK, finally
you tell us this.
Hey, welcome to the party.
There are so many onion layers
to this notion of government
knowledge and disclosure.
One of the things that
they're certainly hiding
is all the things that the
various people involved
shouldn't have been
doing at the time.
Information
gathering techniques,
very prosaic things.
They're just not used
to disclosing things.
>>REGINA: They're used to
operating in the shadows.
>>HYNEK: Yeah.
And so it could be
embarrassing, or just
divulge other
things that are just
general military things that
they don't want to be known.
You know, there was a
case in the '50s where
a woman saw something
in Alaska that she
wasn't supposed to see.
It was an American military
satellite, or actually
a high-tech weather balloon.
This was actually
a weather balloon.
She wasn't supposed to see it.
She reported it.
And so the Air
Force actually said
it was unidentified
because they didn't
want to tip the Russians
to what we actually have.
>>REGINA: I. See.
>>HYNEK: So it's a
really interesting bit
of disinformation.
Now if they have these
really juicy secrets,
which they may well
have, think about it
from their point of view.
They may have reverse
engineered some
of the propulsion technologies.
>>REGINA: Well, and this is
what Philip Corso's book is
about really is
back engineering,
various types of technology
from fiber optics on.
>>HYNEK: And if
you do this, it's
kind of like artificial
intelligence.
If you get a qualitative step
ahead in one of these areas,
it's game over for
military superiority.
So that's a natural
inclination not
to release anything to anybody.
But a growing number
of people feel--
Richard Dolan, Stephen
Bassett, and others--
they feel that they can't
keep it secret much longer,
that they just can't continue.
Secrets are hard to keep, right?
And if you look at the Navy--
>>REGINA: Cat's out of the bag.
>>HYNEK: Right.
And also, we tend to think
of the government as this one
monolithic block,
working in concert.
There are warring fiefdoms.
It's like "Game of Thrones."
And the Navy, I don't
think-- you know,
they obviously see things very
differently than the Air Force.
The Navy has its own
agenda, and then you
can have different people in
different parts of the Navy
who see things differently.
So I think what
could be happening
is that you have the Navy
now and the avant garde,
you know, the spearhead,
and sort of saying,
we need to make
these things known.
And other parts of the
government understanding
that they can't keep it
secret, so maybe they
are sort of priming
the pump and trying
to control the narrative maybe
with some hidden editorial
schedule for this sort of
drip, drip, drop, drop, drop
of steady state of
divulging, let's say,
to say away from disclosure.
Divulging more and more
information to get us ready.
And it certainly seems
consistent with an acceleration
of the frequency of divulging,
and also sort of the severity
or the seriousness of
what is being divulged.
So it seems consistent with
the government feeling, hey,
these secrets can't be held.
Maybe some people have told
them that upon their death,
their estates will
reveal the secrets.
But it seems like we are living
in a time where more and more--
we are living in a time where
more and more information
is coming out.
And it's really hard to
see that in isolation
short of some kind
of grander strategy
or reluctant acknowledgment that
the information will come out,
and there may be advantage in
who discloses that and when.
>>REGINA: I think
that is probably true.
And still, I look
at it and think,
is there truth to the
stories like Balfour?
Are there truth to the stories
where other species have
been collaborating
with our military
and our military
industrial complex?
Is it possible that
they've been collaborating
on things such as AI?
And to what extent are they
going to keep that secret?
And can that actually
not be used in the favor
of the average person?
That's the area--
I don't like shadows.
I like transparency,
because if you're
going to develop this
stuff, you better
be very clear why
you're doing it,
what the higher
purpose for it is,
and how it's going to be used.
And who your partners
have been, and where
you got this technology.
>>HYNEK: And if we have
had these interactions
with other species,
we are then likely
not completely in
control of what
and when things are disclosed.
>>REGINA: Right.
Exactly.
I agree with you.
Meanwhile, I just want
to say, good luck.
I can't wait to
hear about the USOs.
Please come back once you
discover what you discover,
and I wish you the best on
that and the other productions.
And I hope "Project
Blue Book" is picked up
by another network,
because I'm absolutely
loving the heck out of it.
So thank you so much,
Paul, for taking time
to be here with us today.
I really appreciate
all you've had to say.
>>HYNEK: My pleasure, Regina.
Again, you can go to your cable
company or History Channel
or Amazon Prime to
see what we're talking
about in "Project Blue Book."
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[THEME MUSIC]